Indian Institute of Technology Hyderabad
Quiz 1
Communication Skills (LA5180)
Maximum Marks: 50
Name:
Roll No.:
General Instructions; please read very carefully:
• This question paper has 2 sections, A and B
• Read instructions very carefully and answer all questions
• Write your name, email id, and roll number
• All submissions must be complete by 10.05 am. Delayed submissions will not be accepted
and there will be no repeat assignments
A. Carefully read the following questions on academic/scholarly communication and choose the
most appropriate option for each question (1X30=30 marks)
I.
a.
b.
c.
d.Scholarly/formal writing can afford to be
Undecided yet informed
Misinformed yet exciting
Unbiased but rigid
None of the above
a.
b.
c.
d.For writing acceptable journal essays, one should
Write only about research already conducted
Stick only to self-referencing
Refer to others and cite them from acceptable sources
Rarely refer to others and only present one’s own findings
a.
b.
c.
d.If you diverge from existing literature in your journal essay, you should
Simply reject existing data
Support your claims with evidence
Never discuss data you plan to question
All of the above
a.
b.
c.
d.If you want to build on existing information through your review essay, you should
Only focus on your own position without referring to existing literature
Address where you find a gap in existing scholarship
Avoid all existing scholarly references on the topic
None of the above
II.
III.
IV.
1V.
a.
b.
c.
d.Technical and scientific journal articles usually aim at
Undergraduate students
Corporate managers
Specialists in a field
None of the above
a.
b.
c.
d.In a specialized essay from a journal of repute, you may find
Generic information for all segments of readers
Technical jargon and scholarly references
Uncited research and references
Controversial and sensational news on a given topic
VII.
a.
b.
c.
d.In most academic writing, review of literature should
Focus only on your own standpoint as a researcher
Focus on general and related topics and then narrow down
Focus on most recent topics related only your area of study
All of the above
VIII.
a.
b.
c.
d.While framing your research topic for your thesis, you must ideally work on an issue that is
Entirely unknown to your research community
Over examined across your research community
Breaking the norms of your research community
Acceptable to your larger research community
IX.a.
b.
c.
d.In writing your journal paper, you should
Advertise how great your ideas are
Discuss how existing literature is useless
Never mention the shortcomings of your research
List out the limitations of your research
a.
b.
c.
d.While choosing a journal to publish your work, you should
Select the most prestigious journal in your broad area of research
Select a less prestigious journal because your work has greater chances of acceptance there
Select a reputable journal your professional colleagues pay closest attention to
Select only those journals that are advertised by social media
a.
b.
c.
d.General rules of writing a journal paper do not include:
Selecting a topic of significance
Using data with questionable validity
Organized presentation and referencing
All of the above
VI.
X.
XI.
2XII.
a.
b.
c.
d.The title of your journal essay should
Imply the major findings of the research
Not give away information about your research
Refer to scholarship that is unused
None of the above
XIII.
a.
b.
c.
d.The ‘methodology’ section of your research article is important because
It helps you reach the word limit expected of your article
It shows that you are thorough and without mistakes
It makes your article unique since others may not write this
All of the above
XIV.
a.
b.
c.
d.The abstract of your research article is important because
It helps readers screen your work
It helps readers summarize your work
It helps indexing your research work
All of the above
XV.
a.
b.
c.
d.Journal articles often get rejected because they are
Too narrow or too broad; lacking a core argument
Off topic for the journal
Too defensive and not thorough
All of the above
XVI.
a.
b.
c.
d.If you are an empathetic and reflective listener, you will
Try to strongly intervene to help the speaker if she/he is getting complex
Try to understand and repeat what the speaker has said
Never intervene because the setting is formal
Try to redirect the speaker to another topic
XVII.
a.
b.
c.
d.To be an empathetic communicator, one needs to
Try continuously rectifying the other person’s mistakes
Entertain the other person
Try avoiding the other person
Try being in the other person’s shoes
XVIII. Which of the following make professional writing effective?
a. Use of different voices successively (first/second/third/omniscient)
b. Use of active voice and action verbs
c. Use of passive voice with past tense
d. None of the above
XIX. Generally, a review articles is meant to
a. Summarize existing literature
3b. Point out gaps in scholarship
c. Notes possible points of intervention
d. All of the above
XX.
One of the key factors that ensure success in publishing a journal article is
a. Mentioning all famous names in your field of study
b. Locating a model article and following it carefully
c. Redefining your own writing style and modelling it after someone established in your field
d. Regularly contacting the journal’s editor before submission
XXI. Memos are generally written for consumption within
a. A social media group
b. One’s own organization
c. Newspaper reporting
d. An organization where one is a job applicant
XXII. While writing your Resume you should be mindful of
a. Your friends and competitors
b. Your high school teachers
c. Your long and short term goals
d. Your ancestral origins
XXIII. In a cover letter submitted with your resume to your prospective employer, you need to
stress on
a. The employer’s accomplishments and fame
b. Your familial connections and net worth
c. Your childhood experiences and what they mean to you
d. Your possible contributions, in case you get hired
XXIV. While reaching out to a referee for professional recommendation, you ideally should
a. Not disturb the referee by contacting her/him in advance
b. Keep the referee informed of your application
c. Choose a referee who is related and close to you
d. Choose a referee who does not know you too well
XXV. Which of the following is a myth about publishing journal articles?
a. Articles that pair old and new ideas in novel ways get published
b. Only articles with catchy topics find publishing success
c. Publishable articles present old data in a new way
d. All of the above
XXVI. The abstract of your journal article should ideally avoid
a. A lot of data without analysis or conclusion
b. Footnotes and endnotes
c. Extensive quotations from other scholars
d. All of the above
XXVII. During virtual meetings, it is important to
a. Keep presentations ready in advance
4b. Maintain composure in one’s voice and tone
c. Stick to the main point of discussion
d. All of the above
XXVIII. According to the Harvard Negotiation Project, Principled Negotiation leads to
a. Excessive arguments on official issues
b. Ownership of one party over another
c. Focus on one party’s interest over another
d. Possible options being created for mutual gain
XXIX. In the Conclusion section of your journal article, you must
a. Refer to a barrage of data
b. Refer fully to all existing literature you have reviewed
c. Repeat your findings but differently
d. All of the above
XXX. In formal/academic writing it is advisable to avoid
a. Complex roundabout sentences
b. Simple and direct sentences
c. Sentences with active voice
d. Jargon acceptable to your academic community
B. Read the following passage and chose the most appropriate answers for the questions that
follow. Your responses must be in relation to what is stated in the passage below. (2X10=20
marks)
Millions of people in the United States are affected by eating disorders. More than 90% of those afflicted
are adolescents or young adult women. Although all eating disorders share some common manifestations,
anorexia nervosa, bulimia nervosa, and binge eating each have distinctive symptoms and risks.
People who intentionally starve themselves (even while experiencing severe hunger pains) suffer from
anorexia nervosa. The disorder, which usually begins around the time of puberty, involves extreme
weight loss to at least 15% below the individual’s normal body weight. Many people with the disorder
look emaciated but are convinced they are overweight. In patients with anorexia nervosa, starvation can
damage vital organs such as the heart and brain. To protect itself, the body shifts into slow gear:
Menstrual periods stop, blood pressure rates drop, and thyroid function slows. Excessive thirst and
frequent urination may occur. Dehydration contributes to constipation, and reduced body fat leads to
lowered body temperature and the inability to withstand cold. Mild anaemia, swollen joints, reduced
muscle mass, and light-headedness also commonly occur in anorexia nervosa.
Anorexia nervosa sufferers can exhibit sudden angry outbursts or become socially withdrawn. One in ten
cases of anorexia nervosa leads to death from starvation, cardiac arrest, other medical complications, or
suicide. Clinical depression and anxiety place many individuals with eating disorders at risk for suicidal
behavior.
People with bulimia nervosa consume large amounts of food and then rid their bodies of the excess
calories by vomiting, abusing laxatives or diuretics, taking enemas, or exercising obsessively. Some use a
combination of all these forms of purging. Individuals with bulimia who use drugs to stimulate vomiting,
bowel movements, or urination may be in considerable danger, as this practice increases the risk of heart
failure. Dieting heavily between episodes of binging and purging is common.
5Because many individuals with bulimia binge and purge in secret and maintain normal or above normal
body weight, they can often successfully hide their problem for years. But bulimia nervosa patients—even
those of normal weight—can severely damage their bodies by frequent binge eating and purging. In rare
instances, binge eating causes the stomach to rupture; purging may result in heart failure due to loss of
vital minerals such as potassium. Vomiting can cause the oesophagus to become inflamed and glands near
the cheeks to become swollen. As in anorexia nervosa, bulimia may lead to irregular menstrual periods.
Psychological effects include compulsive stealing as well as possible indications of obsessive-compulsive
disorder, an illness characterized by repetitive thoughts and behaviors. Obsessive-compulsive disorder
can also accompany anorexia nervosa. As with anorexia nervosa, bulimia typically begins during
adolescence. Eventually, half of those with anorexia nervosa will develop bulimia. The condition
occurs most often in women but is also found in men.
Binge-eating disorder is found in about 2% of the general population. As many as one-third of this
group are men. It also affects older women, though with less frequency. Recent research shows that
binge-eating disorder occurs in about 30% of people participating in medically supervised weight-
control programs. This disorder differs from bulimia because its sufferers do not purge. Individuals
with binge-eating disorder feel that they lose control of themselves when eating. They eat large
quantities of food and do not stop until they are uncomfortably full. Most sufferers are overweight
or obese and have a history of weight fluctuations. As a result, they are prone to the serious medical
problems associated with obesity, such as high cholesterol, high blood pressure, and diabetes.
Obese individuals also have a higher risk for gallbladder disease, heart disease, and some types of
cancer. Usually they have more difficulty losing weight and keeping it off than do people with other
serious weight problems. Like anorexic and bulimic sufferers who exhibit psychological problems,
individuals with binge-eating disorder have high rates of simultaneously occurring psychiatric
illnesses, especially depression.
XXXI Fatalities occur in what percent of people with anorexia nervosa?
a. 2%
b. 10%
c. 15%
d. 30%
XXXII Which of the following consequences do all the eating disorders mentioned in the
passage have in common?
a. heart ailments
b. stomach rupture
c. swollen joints
d. diabetes
XXXIII According to the passage, people with binge eating disorder are prone to all of the
following EXCEPT
a. loss of control.
b. depression.
c. low blood pressure.
d. high cholesterol.
XXXIV Which of the following is NOT a statement about people with eating disorders?
6a. People with anorexia nervosa commonly have a blood-related deficiency.
b. People with anorexia nervosa perceive themselves as overweight.
c. The female population is the primary group affected by eating disorders.
d. Fifty percent of people with bulimia have had anorexia nervosa.
XXXV People who have an eating disorder but nevertheless appear to be of normal weight are
most likely to have
a. obsessive-compulsive disorder.
b. bulimia nervosa.
c. binge-eating disorder.
d. anorexia nervosa.
XXXVI Glandular functions of eating-disorder patients slow down as a result of
a. lowering body temperatures.
b. excessive thirst and urination.
c. protective measures taken by the body.
d. the loss of essential minerals.
XXXVII The inability to eliminate body waste is related to
a. dehydration.
b. an inflamed esophagus.
c. the abuse of laxatives.
d. weight-control programs.
XXXVIII According to the passage, which of the following is true of bulimia patients?
a. They may demonstrate unpredictable social behavior.
b. They often engage in compulsive exercise.
c. They are less susceptible to dehydration than are anorexia patients.
d. They frequently experience stomach ruptures.
XXXIX Which of the following represent up to two thirds of the binge-eating disorder
population?
a. older males
b. older females
c. younger males
d. younger females
101
XL According to the passage, obese people are not particularly at a risk of which of the
following:
a. Cerebral palsy
b. Heart ailments
c. Cancer
d. Gall bladder problems
7
